High we'll come back in this video we're looking at implementing the binary tree.
And I hope that you did attempt that on your own first.
Hopefully you did and hopefully your tests passed.
And then there's not much that you have to do in this video except have a look at what I've done and
why I've done the things that I've done and maybe learn something.
Or maybe you think your solution is better and you can put something in the course Q&A.
And I'm always interested in looking at your solutions and maybe we can all learn a thing or two.
I gave you quite a lot of code already for the binary tree.
It's a bit more complicated than the linked list based data structures which is why I wanted to help
you out a bit more.
So what we're going to be doing in this video is just implementing those things that raised not implemented
errors.
Remember the added method should add a note to the binary tree following the path that is suitable.
For example if we have a root node that is something like has a value 5 and then it has a left no Has
the value for.
And then we want to add a node with the value 3.
The node should go to the root then move over to the left and finally get added to the left of the 4
.
If it was the opposite and 5 pointed in its right to 6 and we wanted to add a node say 7 then we would
start at the root.
We would move to the right and then we would add the 7 to the right of 6.
If we had five point to eight which is to the right and we wanted to add seven we would solve the root
.
We would go to the right and then we would add 7 to the left of 8 but I'm sure you all know this already
That was just a refresher.
And that's what going to be doing in this video.
We've got the ad method which I'm going to delete that for now and we've got a couple of comments.
If the route is none we'd have to sent to the root to be the new node.
That's because there is no left and right at the very beginning.
There's only one massive trunk.
If you wish in a normal tree and this is the root the root is empty.
There is nothing there.
We'll just set the route to be the new node but if the route does have a value already then we have
to start iterating and seeing whether we have to go left or right.
We start by creating a variable called marker and setting that to either route.
And then while marker has a value we can iterate if at any point we reach a moment where the market
doesn't have a value then we're going to be adding a mode.
OK let's implement that here.
First of all if the nodes value the where we're adding if than the one where adding value is equal to
the marker's value that means we've made a mistake or something like that because we don't want duplicate
values in a binary tree.
Where would it go.
There's only left for smaller values and right for larger values.
If the value is equal there is no place for it.
It can't go directly under or anything like that.
So here it raised are not implemented because we were meant to implement this.
But it should really raise a value error.
That's a more suitable exception so let's raise a value error and say a node with that value with that
value Franek already exists.
There we go.
If the nodes value is greater than the marker's value it means the node we're adding should be going
towards the right.
So what we're going to do is see if the markers right node is empty.
If there is a slot then if not Mark or donga right.
This means if the markers right node doesn't have a value that means that it has spaces there for the
new node.
When say marker set right then you know it and return this return just returns.
None is the same thing but we can just leave it as the returned keyword and that just means exit the
method and end.
Really.
Else we're going to say Markert equal marker get right.
So if the markers right is empty then we're going to set it right.
Note to be the new node because there was a space there for it.
But if it's not empty then that means we kind of have to move to the right.
We have to go down that path in order to find the suitable space where we can put the new node.
So if that is the case we're going to a marker equal market or get right without the return keyword
without the return keyword and that's just going to make it go back to the top of the while loop and
then we're going to continue do the same thing again.
Similarly if the nodes value is less than the marker's value we're going to do the opposite.
If not marker don't get left marker offset left left node return else mockery call marker don't get
left.
So what this does is the opposite.
If this is space Well first of all if the nodes value is less than the markers value and there is a
space to the left you're going to just put on you know there.
And if not we're going to move down towards the left making the marker equal the markers get left and
then we're going to go back to the top of the While loop.
We're going to be doing the same thing again.
Think about this code a few times.
Run it through with some samples.
I normally have a piece of paper in front of me when I'm working with binary trees where I draw the
binary tree and then I calculate the paths for each node that I'm adding to make sure that I'm adding
the right things in the right places.
I recommend you do that too.
Finally we've got the find method as well which is similar but it doesn't have to add notes.
I think it has to do is find them.
So once again the market is going to be the root and while the marker has a value we're going to be
iterating or traversing the tree.
If the value that we're looking for this value up there is equal to the marker's value we're going to
return the marker because we found it in the Add method.
We raised an error because we were going to add a node that was a duplicate in the find the method we
returned the marker because we found the node we were looking for L if the value is greater than the
marker's value.
We're going to move to the right marker equal marker get right
and that's just gonna let us restart the while loop in the next available right node.
Finally if none of these are true that means the value is less than the marker's value.
And what we'll do is a marker equal marker get left and that will move us to the left and then we will
run the loop again with the next node then which will eventually we will go left and then go right on
the left and right and so on until we find the vnode.
And that's what we are going to be returning.
However if we end up at a marker that is none we are going to just exit the loop potentially without
returning anything.
So what we want to do there is raise a lookup era inode with value must not be found and then we format
that with a value we were looking for.
Now think about this code carefully.
Take some time to think it through take some time to draw your binary trees calculate adding notes.
Maybe you'll find there's a mistake in here somewhere.
It's happened before.
And do post in the course Kewney if you do find any errors or you have any ideas or you think your solution
is better or you think your solution is wrong and you want some ideas on how to fix it.
Once that's done just write the tests file and run the unit tests there and you should see all six tests
passed.
If you do then good job you have essentially implemented all of it are structures that we asked you
in this course.
And really that's quite a bit of knowledge that you've now acquired about a really important topic in
computer science and in interviews and in jobs.
So good job congratulations.
You've reached the end of this section where we looked at data structures and there's more things to
do with binary trees that you could look at such as deleting nodes from binary trees.
That's an especially complicated subject that we're not touching on yet but we may do in the future
.
So that's it for now and thanks for joining me and I'll see you soon.